# Altered ploidy levels results in parent-of-origin effects on Arabidopsis 
seeds

## Introduction
Seeds are a vital agricultural commodity, being used directly for human 
consumption and by being the carriers of the next generation of crops. How 
to ensure that seeds which are produced are both large and viable is 
therefore an important area of scientific investigation. One method that 
is able to affect the size of seeds is by altering their ploidy levels, 
i.e., by changing the number of chromosomal sets within the seed. 
Unfortunately, plants do not always respond well to these changes, 
resulting in a loss of seed viability. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the 
effects of increased ploidy levels differ depending on the parent (pollen 
or egg cell) that provided the additional chromosomal sets: maternal 
excess results in smaller seeds, while paternal excess results in larger 
seeds. Although paternal excess can induce a larger seed size, certain 
ecotypes of Arabidopsis are not able to tolerate this additional genomic 
content, exhibiting as small, dark, shriveled seeds. Thus, this phenotype 
is of interest to uncover the regulatory factors involved in controlling 
seed size and viability. 

For this experimental investigation, machine learning will be used to 
provide further support that the pollen parents did have an increased 
ploidy level that were crossed to the maternal parent. Since the wild-type 
seeds differ in both seed size and texture (shriveled or smooth), these 
characteristics will be used to aid in classification. This is only a 
basic approach to seed classification, and in the future, it is the 
author's hope to build on these skills attained in order to classify seeds 
based on data acquired through pictures and other electromagnetic 
radiation.

## Methods
Seeds have not yet been analyzed and could not be used for this 
investigation. Therefore, data will be an estimate and based on previous 
work done by Wilkins (2021). Estimated seed weights and textures will be 
replaced with actual measurements to train and test all models in the 
future.

Arabidopsis seed weight and texture have been shown to be good indicators 
of altered ploidy levels. Since these measurements provide some separation 
of data points when plotted against each other, the k-nearest neighbors 
model was used to assess the outcome of the different parental crosses. 
Mean seed weights and mean percent shriveled seeds represent the means for 
an individual seed pod (silique). Model was created using scikit-learn in 
Python. All code and info can be found at _______________.

## Results


## Discussion



